series-stats
============

Numeric series statistics algorithms and utility methods. Useful for data visualization an choropleth mapping, specifically for breaking up a series of numbers into legend ranges.

#Series API

**equalBreaks** `Series.equalBreaks( [series], classes );`  
Accepts a numeric series (array) and a number of classes to create. Returns an array of equally-sized class breaks distributed evenly across the range of series values. Example:

	Series.equalBreaks([10, 55, 87, 63, 27, 36, 23, 71, 29, 45, 2, 83, 17], 4);
	// >> [2, 23.25, 44.5, 65.75, 87]

**quantileBreaks** `Series.quantileBreaks( [series], classes );`  
Returns an array of unevenly-sized classes distributed at even intervals across the series of values. Example:

	Series.quantileBreaks([10, 55, 87, 63, 27, 36, 23, 71, 29, 45, 2, 83, 17], 4);
	// >> [2, 23, 36, 63, 87]

**jenksBreaks** `Series.jenksBreaks( [series], classes );`  
Returns an array of unevenly-sized classes distributed at uneven intervals across the series of values. Breaks are algorithmically plotted around concentrations of values within the series. Tends to minimizes the impact of outlier values on the outskirts of the series. Example:

	Series.jenksBreaks([10, 55, 87, 63, 27, 36, 23, 71, 29, 45, 2, 83, 17], 4);
	// >> [2, 17, 36, 63, 87]

**plot** `Series.plot( [series], value, descending? );`  
Plots a value's index position within a numeric series array. Used to plot data values within a series of computed breaks (generated by one of the available breaks functions).

By default, plotting starts at the bottom of the series (first value) and works its way upward; each number in the series is used as a threshold that the value is tested against. If the value is `<=` to a threshold, then it advances upward in the series until a maximum threshold index is found and returned. May optionally perform a descending plot; this will start at the top of the series (last value) and work its way down comparing `>=` against each threshold. The plotted index of ascending and descending operations may differ.

* `[series]`: The numeric series array used to plot the value. Assumes the series to be pre-sorted.
* `value`: The value to plot within the series.
* `descending?`: Optional parameter to enable a descending (top-down) plot.

Examples:

	// Mid-series ascending/descending:
	Series.plot([0, 25, 50, 75, 100], 40);
	// >> 1
	Series.plot([0, 25, 50, 75, 100], 40, true);
	// >> 1
	
	// Threshold ascending/descending:
	Series.plot([0, 25, 50, 75, 100], 50);
	// >> 1
	Series.plot([0, 25, 50, 75, 100], 50, true);
	// >> 2

**sort** `Series.sort( [series], descending? );`  
Performs a numeric sort on the series array.

**min** `Series.min( [series] );`  
Finds the minimum value within a numeric series array.

**max** `Series.max( [series] );`  
Finds the maximum value within a numeric series array.

**sum** `Series.sum( [series] );`  
Calculates the sum (total) of a numeric series array.

**mean** `Series.mean( [series] );`  
Calculates the mean (average) of a numeric series array.

**unique** `Series.unique( [series] );`  
Collects all unique values from a numeric series array; returns a new sorted array of the unique values.
